In a society where social media is so vastly present, are the privacyconcerns
around these platform more relevant than ever. When developing applications,
privacy laws and concerns must be taken in account. But this does not mean all
these platforms are bulletproof. In a lot of applications is it still possible
to find loopholes in the system, with a possibility of rather unpleasant
consequences. During this thesis, the main focus will be on the privacy policy
of fitnesstrackers. These are platforms with the goal of storing and displaying
data related to sport activities. These can be shared with other users, with
the goal of sharing your achievements, and possibly motivating others to sport.
This data may include heart rate, gps-locations, , some pieces could
potentially more harmful than others. The focus of this thesis will be on the
potentially harmful abilities gotten from gps locations, and everything related
with gps and distance. The main concern about sharing this location based data,
is potentially sharing location you would rather keep private. For example your
home location. Sharing all the gps locations of your activities, could possibly
leak this location.

Most of these platforms are aware of this danger, and implement a series of
countermeasures to prevent leaking this sensitive information. This comes
however with a cost, the user experience. In the perspective of the big
companies, a trade-off is consistently being made between privacy and user
experience. On most platforms like Strava, Garmin, are similar basic
privacy features implemented. These are features like hiding activities, or
only sharing activities with your followers. But another much-used
countermeasure is a mechanism known as an EPZ (Endpoint Privacy Zone).

An EPZ is a circle or polygon drawn around a certain sensitive
location. The main focus will be the circles, because they are the most used
and they are the most straightforward to bypass. These circles will de drawn
using a radius chosen by the user, and a center which is a random point in the
area of around the sensitive location. This center can't be further than 70%
of the radius away from this sensitive location. When this zone is generated,
the end and beginning of the activity will be hidden which pass through this
zone will be hidden for other users.

This implementation of hiding parts of the track, is not a bulletproof system.
When hiding the tracks, other possibly useful information is not being hidden
or adapted. During this thesis, the goal is to retrieve sensitive location.
This can be achieved by using the total times and distances of the activities.
Previous research showed that it is possible to retrieve sensitive locations
using the total distance, and the street map of the area. These attacks are
called inference attacks. The distance traveled inside the EPZ can be
inferred using the total distance given by the activity, and the distance
traveled outside of the EPZ (this is the visible distance). Using the distance
traveled inside of the EPZ, a route can be constructed and mapped to the
streetplan. If all the possible routes are considered, multiple possible
locations are found. If this is repeated for different activities, with
different points where the EPZ is being entered, there will, in the best case,
only one point remain. This would then be the sensitive location.

During this thesis, a research is being held on the possibilities of such
inference attacks using other data as a base than distance. The main focus will
be on the speed and tempo of the activities, in combination with the
gps-locations. This method will consist of three parts. First, the average
speed and the total duration will be used to calculate the total distance.
Second, the gps points will be the used to calculate the distance traveled
outside of the EPZ. In order to do this effectively, smoothing and map
snapping strategies need to be tested out in order to get the best results.
These two values can in the third step being used to execute the interference
attack. The results of this attack will be compared with the results of the
previous implementations of this sort of attack.

This attack is successful in some cases. With the correct tuning of the
parameters of the smoothing algorithm, a succes rate of 75% can be achieved.
This is lower than previous implementations of this attack, which is logical
because of the type of data that is being used. Especially the gps-locations,
which are not always as accurate. And because there are so many points needed
and given, small deviations on every point result in a large deviation on the
calculated distance. But the main conclusion is that this attack is possible,
with a significant succes rate.

Keywords: fitness-trackers, privacy, endpoint privacy zone, gps-locations, inference attack, speed